Hello and welcome to this Arta Tauriel and Embree use the toilets.
We already implemented a multiple regression model that we fitted to the trainset.
But when we take a step back do you think it's actually the optimal model that we can make with the
data set that we have here.
You know because when we build this model we actually used all the independent variables.
But what if among these independent variables there are some that are highly statistically significant
that is have great impact or great effect on the dependent variable profit and some that are not statistically
significant at all.
That means that if we removed these nonstick distinctly significant variables from the moral world we
would still get some amazing predictions.
So the goal in this tutorial is to actually find a team an optimal team of independent variables so
that each independent variable of the team has great impact on the dependent variable profits that is
each independent variable of the team is a powerful predictor that is highly statistically significant
and definitely has an effect on the dependent variable profit and this effect can be positive.
That is for an increase of 1 unit of the independent variable.
The profit will increase or it can be negative.
The profit will decrease and so we're going to divide this final step of building this optimal model
using backward elimination into two tutorials in this first tutorial that we are having right now.
I'm going to walk you through the backdoor elimination algorithm without completing it up to the end
.
That means that at the end of this Tauriel you'll get a homework which will consist of completing what
we started with backward elimination.
So I'm sure we will have no problem because I'm going to walk you through the introduction of backward
elimination so that you can understand everything and have all the tools to complete the homework.
And then in the next tutorial I'll give you the solution of this homework and we will complete together
the backward elimination.
So I hope you're excited.
Let's start right now.
The backward elimination.
So for those of you who follow the Python tutorial you will notice that it's actually a little more
simple here because in the PIF anti-Tory we had to use another library and another the regression model
to implement backward elimination.
And this time we will simply take the model that we created here and we will use this amazing function
summary of our that returns a great deal of statistical information that can help make our model more
robust.
And then same as in Python We are going to do some copy paste very simply until we get to the final
team of our independent variables.
So let's do this.
You're going to see it's really quick and easy.
We're going to do that very efficiently.
And the first step of doing that is to actually take our model because as I just mentioned we're going
to use the same model to implement backward elimination.
So here I just copied the model and I'm going to paste it here and now we're just going to change two
things.
The first thing is instead of having this dot here you notice that that represents all the independent
variables we are going to write all the independent variables separated by a plus because you know the
principle of backward elimination is that we will remove each independent variable that is not statistically
significant one by one.
So we need here to write each of the independent variables so that when we copy paste this model here
we will just need to remove the non statistically significant variable from this equation here.
OK.
So let's first do this.
I'm going to take our dataset here to look at the independent variables.
So the first independent variable is Arty's Ben.
So let's add it here.
So our dot D so you know as a reminder there is a dot here because the original name for this independent
variable is our space D and are just replaced the space by a dot here.
So it's good to know that if you're working with are and if you have some data sets with spaces in your
column names and then OK.
So what was the name dot.
Another daughter that means all the space dot and spend.
All right so that's the first independent viable.
Now let's add the second one.
So we need to separate them by a plus.
OK.
And what is the second one.
The second one is administration.
OK.
So here there is no doubt everything is fine just as it's spelt right.
Administration plus
marketing spend
plus and we have one one last independent very well which is the states so we don't need to create a
dummy variables as we did in Python because remember we use here this amazing factor function that encoded
this state categorical variable into factors that are one to three and there is no relational order
between those categories.
So everything is fine.
We don't need to create any dummy variables.
So that's the beauty of our.
And so here is saying we don't need to sum to separate dummy variables we can take the original independent
variable state.
OK so as I mentioned there are two things that we would like to change here.
The first thing was to replace the dot by all these independent variables separated by a plus.
And now the second thing that we would like to do but it's not compulsory is just because I would like
to use all the data set to see the correlations is to replace your training set by simply our data set
.
So that's not compulsory.
We can actually do backward elimination using the training set but we're just taking the whole data
set in order to have complete informations about which independent variables are statistically significant
and which independent variables are not OK.
And now actually we're almost ready.
We just need to use the summary function which we actually already used before.
And there is nothing more simple than using the summary function we just need to take the summary function
here and then in parenthesis we input are regressors.
Here it is.
And now that's actually ready we're actually ready to start the first steps of our backward elimination
.
Well speaking of backward elimination Let's have a look at the slide you saw with Kirill in the intuition
tutorial and here's the slide.
So let's have a quick reminder about the five steps here.
So the first step is to select the significance level that is a threshold for our P-value such that
if the p value of an independent variable is below the significance level then this independent variable
stays in the model and if the p value of the independent variable is higher than the significance level
then it will not stay in the model.
We will remove it.
So the first step is just to select a significance that we don't have to do anything here with the independent
variables.
We just need to choose one and we're going to choose 5 percent 0.05.
Okay.
And now step two step two is to fit the full model with all possible predictors.
So that's actually what we've just done you know by taking all our independent variables in our regressors
using the LN function that actually fits the full model with all the possible predictors that is with
all the independent variables.
Okay so done.
And now what is Step Three Step three is to look at the predictor that has the highest P value.
So we will find it thanks to our summary function.
And if the p value is higher than the significance level that is if it's higher than 5 percent then
we'll go to Step 4.
And if that's not the case our model is actually ready but don't worry it will not be that quick.
So actually let's suppose we found the highest value higher than the significance level of 5 percent
then we need to move on to Step 4 and the Step 4 is actually to remove this independent viable that
has the highest value.
And once we remove the predictor we're ready to move onto Step Five which is to fit the model without
this viable.
So that's why you know we wrote all the independent variables one by one separated by a plus because
you know once we've reached step five here we will just copy paste the regress or and the summary function
and remove this in the Bible that had the highest value from the regress or to build a new regress or
without this viable.
And that will fit this model without the voidable and once it's done we go back to Step 3 here to repeat
the same pathway there is once again we're going to look for the independent variables among the new
team of independent variables without the independent variable that we just removed.
So we're going to look for the independent variable that has the highest value and say if the p value
is higher than the significance level we'll get to Step 4 and otherwise our model is ready.
So let's do this we already completed step 1 by choosing a significant level of 5 percent and same for
step 2 we actually fitted the model with all possible predictors.
Well we need of course to execute the code.
And now we will move onto step three which will consist of looking for the independent variable that
has the highest P value.
So let's do this right now.
OK.
So as I just mentioned we need to execute this to build our regressors with all the independent variables
.
Well actually we don't really need to execute this because we actually executed this code section here
that builds exactly the same regress or.
But just to complete all the steps in this tutorial let's execute that again that will not cause any
issue.
So I'm going to press command control press enter to execute.
And here we go.
Same regrets are created again with a different syntax and that's because we want to remove the non-significant
and the bell invariable one by one.
Great.
So that actually completes step two.
And now let's move on to step three which was to look for the independent variable that has the highest
P value and to do this we're going to select this summary function with the regressors inside and press
command and control us and to execute.
Let's move that up a bit.
So these informations are very important informations when we want to build a robust model.
And that's not only thanks to the information about the P-value here that will help select the optimal
team of independent variables because below we also have this multiple R-squared.
And this I just add R-squared that will help us build even more robust model than the one we're going
to make in the next two tutorials because at the end of this part there is a section called evaluating
models performance to actually improve the model performance.
And in this part we'll actually use the multiple R-squared and the adjusted R-squared to finalise our
journey towards the most robust model and you will perfectly understand why at the end of this part
but for now let's focus on the P-value So the p values are actually in this column and then our There
is actually a shortcut to look at the statistical significance.
It's this last column here while this Nasscom doesn't have a name but you need to look at the stars
here because as a reminder the more the value is below 5 percent are significance level then the more
the independent variable will be statistically significant for the dependent variable profit and the
more the value is higher than the significance level 5 percent then the less statistically significant
the independent variable will be.
So in short the lower the value the more your independent variable will have high impact on your dependent
variable and the higher is the value the less effect impact your independent variable is going to have
on the dependent variable.
And there is this reminder here that says that if the P-value is between 0 and 0.1 percent then it's
3 stars meaning that it's highly statistically significant than if the p value is between 0.1 percent
and 1 percent then it's 2 stars meaning that it's very statistically significant but less significant
than when there is three stars.
Then if you've got us between 1 percent and 5 percent then it's simply statistically significant.
That is your independent variables still have some good impact on the dependent variable.
And then if the value is between 5 percent and 10 percent then it's a dot.
Meaning that there is definitely a certain level of statistical significance there is your independent
variable has a certain effect on your dependent variable but definitely not as much as your other independent
variables that are in these categories here especially for this one.
And finally if your p value is between 10 percent and 1.
Well there's absolutely no statistical significance.
So that means that with what we first observe here.
Well we can see that the R&D spend is highly statistically significant but the rest seems to be not
significant.
But let's wait for the backward elimination to be completed to find out if our final team is actually
only composed of Ardie spend because by removing some independent variables here that will remove some
possible bias that want some independent variables are removed.
We can actually find an independent variable that is more statistically significant than what it appeared
to be at the beginning.
That is the first step here.
So let's find out about that.
And actually you will find out about that yourself because this will be the subject of the homework
.
But don't worry I'm going to walk you through the first steps backward elimination and you will complete
it yourself.
And then the next tutorial of course will have the solution and we'll complete it together.
So I look forward to seeing if we get the same results.
Ok so now let's carry on with backward elimination.
So remember we are at Step three.
Step three is actually to look for the independent variable that has the highest P value and we can
find it very easily.
It's actually this one because indeed it's P-value is open 99 that is 99 percent.
So that's actually a very high value.
And we are way above the significance level of 5 percent.
So this dummy variable for state state 2 is definitely not statistically significant at all.
It has absolutely no effect on the dependent variable profit.
And by the way we also observe that stage 3 here has a 94 percent p value.
And there is no way that if we remove state to well this be value will decrease below the 5 percent
significance level.
So we can actually remove this state three independent variable as well because clearly the state has
no effect or impact on the dependent variable profit.
So I'll actually make some kind of a shortcut here and instead of removing the independent variable
that has the highest P value that is state two will actually remove both these dummy variables for states
because definitely the state is not statistically significant.
So let's do this let's remove the state variable from our equation.
So I'm going to put that down.
OK so as I told you it's very simple we're just going to copy this and paste it here and then.
So what do we have to do now.
We just need to remove the state in the variable from our equation here and by doing that we complete
Step four because if we go back to our slide step four is to actually remove the predicter grades and
now we can move onto Step Five which is to fit the multiple regression model without the independent
viable state that we just removed.
OK.
So we removed States so step 4 completed and now step 5 is to actually fit the model without this independent
viable state that we just removed.
So let's do this.
We just need to select this press command and control this and to do execute.
And here it is our new regressors is ready without the state independent viable.
So now we have a team of three independent variables wait and see which have been invaluable is going
to be kicked out of the team.
And speaking of that this is where I'm going to leave you alone for the homework but don't worry you
will have the solution in the next tutorial.
But really try to implement this yourself complete backward elimination up to the end.
And it will be fun to see if we get the same result.
And there is actually kind of a decision to make at the end of Backwell elimination.
So I'm curious to see how you make that decision make that call because both solutions are actually
great and we will talk about that in the solution.
So good luck for the homework.
You're going to see it's going to be fine.
So basically what you only have to do is to follow this backward elimination slide and so together and
the Statoil went up to this.
Step Five here and now as you can see you have to go back to Step Three and redo the steps three four
five exactly like we just did until you find that the highest value is not higher than the significance
level.
And when it's the case your model will be ready.
OK.
So I look forward to seeing you in the next tutorial.
I look forward to comparing with you your results to mine and I'm sure everything will be ok.
Backward elimination is very practical on our.
It will actually be fun and easy to complete this.
So thank you for watching this story.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next one for the solution.
Until then and machine learning.